the UN General assembly's recent vote on
a ceasefire in Gaza has had overwhelming
backing yet Israel still insists it will
continue with its air and ground
offensive against Hamas which is
classified as a terror group by the US
EU and other countries the Israeli
military has now designated a narrow
strip in South Gaza called al- muui as a
humanitarian Zone it has directed Gins
to relocate there but the area lacks the
basic necessities of shelter and water
for thousands of displaced
refugees a strip of barren
land crammed with desperate gazin
seeking
safety andas mosle heed Israel's call to
flee to almasi in southern Gaza when her
home was bombed she now lives with her
children in a thin plastic
tent there is no place for us to wash
our pray if we want to wash our kids
hands there is no place for that there
is nowh we can bake or get bread there
is no bakery or Supermarket it's a
completely remote
area anas and other Palestinians in
almasi describe it as dangerously
overcrowded and lacking in basic
necessities like shelter medical
services and food but Israel has
described elmasi as a humanitarian Zone
and issued orders for civilians to
evacuate there saying Aid will arrive
we've been making again with everything
we have our uh in our capabilities every
effort we can to facilitate the movement
of civilians in the south in order to
mitigate civilian casualties and we're
doing everything we can to set the
conditions for the humanitarian Zone in
the almasi coastline the area makes up
just a tiny fraction of the densely
populated Gaza Strip about about 14
Square km Israel has changed the exact
borders of the safe Zone several times
and some evacuation orders have not
mentioned almasi at
all Aid groups have called Israel's
offer of safety a cruel Mirage and say
the situation in alasi is
dire if you imagine a car park of people
stacked on top of each other still
without a toilet still without a drop of
water so here you would absolutely have
have S zones that are zones of disease
that would become in any same projection
zones of death so it's such an important
narrative to to break this idea that
people can just go to a safe Zone if
they wish there is absolutely nothing
safe about this the gazin Sheltering in
almasi say they have found no sense of
safety
there we spent all night listening to
the bombing we're living between life
and death at any moment it may be our
turn and our it's turn to
Die the United Nations says more than
85% of gaza's population has been
displaced by the war and that here in
al- muasi like everywhere in Gaza there
is nowhere truly safe to
go and journalist hzim balha told me
about the status of humanitarian Aid
delivery meant to reach people in al-
moesi well this is the problem not only
in Al Moi um across the Gaza St we are
talking three places like North Gaza uh
the South and Al maasi North Gaza is
suffering from uh uh uh the the shortage
of everything um um according to the
people I talk to and the reports coming
from there there is no nothing um um
from uh anything um delivered there
except the time when there was the Bose
the south is like um we are talking
about 1.9 million people are living in a
very small area and the need is very
high for the alasi al- maasi is um it's
um a designed place a small place not
everybody is there so some organizations
are delivering aid but it's not enough
of course now the idea of keeps calling
Al Mesi a humanitarian Zone I wonder if
the Israeli Army is doing anything to
facilitate
that
well what what Israeli Army is doing is
calling people to go there um and and
they said from the first day of when ask
the people to go or um to evacuate U to
the South but
um what they are doing is like um
according to the people no Boman there
but I mean it's not clear who's
responsible for it Ona is said like we
have no responsibility for that area
it's not under our our uh Duty
other organizations as well they are
saying we we don't know um but still
some some some Charities and some
organizations only delivering some food
and some Aid which is people still say
it's not enough and especially in this
um rainy and cold weather ham is there
any place in Gaza that's actually safe
for
civilians um this is the question I have
been asked like all the time uh of
course not um there is no shelters I
mean like under I mean uh proteced
shelters as a proper shelter for gazans
um um um many people were killed or some
at least according to the officials
about 40 or even more per of the
casualties were from the south where the
people asked to leave um uh to and and
and and um many people were displaced
from the north and they were killed in
the South um
um a huge number of people were um
matching this case um all the people in
Gaza say no no safe place of course
there is some places less danger than
others especially the areas where um the
ground invasion is taking place the UN
General Assembly has voted
overwhelmingly for a ceas fire and
President Biden has criticized Israel
for its Court indiscriminate bombing in
G G do people in Gaza think that the
world is on their
side uh in Gaza they care about first
about um um the basic needs that they uh
they want at this level second they call
for an immediate
ceasefire um um third they they uh they
complain and and um criticize the whole
world um um because they are not doing
enough for them whether helping them in
this circumstances or pushing Israel um
to stop um the hostilities um they think
they are abandoned uh isolated and they
left alone uh this is the common thing
that I hear from people uh ordinary
people across the Gaza Strip uh of
course there are some some efforts every
day that when I'm talking to people
there and they ask me what what what's
happening is there a sign of a season
fire or something um people talking
about um but definitely they feel that
they are abandoned and alone we'll leave
it there for the time being thanks so
much for joining us journalist hzim Bala
in
Aman thank
you all right let's get more on this
from Peter lenana spokesperson of the
Israeli Defense Forces he joins me from
Tel Aviv Mr lenana US President Joe
Biden says Israel is carrying out quote
indiscriminate bombing in Gaza what is
the ID of doing to change
that good morning V indeed the IDF is
continuing its efforts in order to
dismantle and Destroy Hamas and make
sure that they never have the power
again to conduct a brutal Massacre as
they did on the 7th of October we are
very attentive to our American Allies
specifically the administration and also
from a military to military perspective
and we are listening very carefully to
their messages their messages are in
line with our overhauling goal of of
dismantling and destroying Hamas and of
course we are operating within the the
foundations within the framework of the
laws of armed conflict our military
activities are uh targeted at hamas's
infrastructure in order to dismantle and
Achieve our goals we understand that but
then what are you doing to not bomb Gaza
indiscriminately as the US president was
pointing to
there the IDF does not conduct
indiscriminate fire I would argue that
the reality on the ground and we have
Rel released extensive footage that DW
has been broadcasting over the last two
months uh of precision strikes the
strikes are specific targets at strikes
that are based on intelligence based on
understanding based on Military
necessity as in and in accordance with
the laws of one conflict then why so
many Civ sorry for interrupting sir then
why are so many civilians
dying we will continue our war in order
to achieve our goals and REM remove the
threat of Hamas the civilian casualties
and every single one of those is a an
individual tragedy and a tragedy for the
community and the people of Gaza right
um they are nevertheless based out of
the understanding of hamas's concept of
operations Hamas have intentionally
positioned its capabilities all of its
capabilities beneath hospitals in
schools in mosques um in uh in and
around un facilities uh in residential
areas they're doing it exactly to
exasperate the civilian Strife our goal
is not
to strike civilians on the contrary
we're going out of our way to and
sometimes putting ourselves at risks to
to evacuate civilian areas so that we
can conduct our strikes against Hamas
exactly and as as expected of us you are
evacuating a number of civali civilians
I'd imagine in southern Gaza to al- muui
is that correct or are there other
evacuation zones as well
um so we've throughout the course of
this war in the last two months we've
evacuated people from different
locations to safer locations to get them
specifically out of H's way precisely
because how Hamas has
established Lo centers of could you just
tell us which are these safe
locations the safe as I said it depends
on specific locations that it's not only
one location but there are when there
are operations under conduct when there
are operations taking places in specific
locations like in against specific
Target again in kanun so we evacuate
that specific area and tell people where
to go
specifically the un's emergency relief
coordinator Martin Griffith said last
week and I'm sorry again for
interrupting he said last week there is
quote no place safe for civilians in
southern Gaza is he
lying I would say that the UN need to be
part of the solution and not part of the
problem telling Israel not to defend
itself not to protect itself not to
change the Paradigm in uh with in
relations to Israel and Gaza is
unacceptable for Israel we won't sit
back and not protect Israeli civilians
because Hamas are hiding behind
Palestinian civilians that is an absurd
expectation from us our responsibility
is to change the Paradigm our
responsibility is to make sure that that
that
what on the S of October can never ever
happens need to be part of solving this
and alleviating the situation that is
precisely why as you correctly reported
we are increasing the efforts of the
humanitarian Aid the access today we
will have another 200 uh trucks which
will access into Gaza and this is a
number that has been increasing day by
day unfortunately it's not the Israeli
side that are preventing it but rather
what we're seeing this morning right
that Hamas are not opening the the
Palestinian side of Rafa and not
facilitating the access of the
humanitarian
itself so we need to ask ourselves again
why is Hamas preventing humanitarian Aid
people of Gaza why is Israel not opening
the Kim Shalom Crossing for trucks to
cross
through K Shalom is closed K Shalom is
closed precisely because Hamas decided
to attack Israel the the goods are being
inspected in the is on the Israeli side
and they are continuing to the Egyptian
side where they then they can be
processed by by the Palestinians in Rafa
we'll leave it there for the time being
thank you so much for joining us today
Peter Lena IDF spokesperson thank you
sir good
day